---
layout: project
permalink: /:title/
category: projects

meta:
  keywords: "Research, Publications"

project:
  title: "Research"
  type: "Gralha-cancã"
  logo: "/assets/images/projects/research/logo.jpg"

images:
  - image:
    url: "/assets/images/projects/research/gado.png"
    alt: "House, Sitio do Moco by Otavio Nogueira"
  - image:
    url: "/assets/images/projects/research/field-8.png"
    alt: "Gado by Otavio Nogueira"
  - image:
    url: "/assets/images/projects/research/fruit.png"
    alt: "Field research"
---
<p style="padding-top:50px">

I am interested in exploring real-world phenomena that affect the resilience of social-ecological systems, i.e., the capacity to tolerate, cope with, and adjust to changing social or environmental conditions while sustaining critical aspects of structure, function, and identity. I strive to use my training as both conservation scientist and forest ecologist to build scientific understanding on how human agency, actions, and activities impact social and ecological resilience, and how changes in resilience levels of social-ecological systems affect their capacity to sustain healthy ecosystems, livelihoods, and good quality of life. Also central to my work is developing tools to translate my research into solutions for socio-ecological problems.</p>
<br>
**ideas on a paper**
<br>
<p style="font-size:14px;">
COSTA, C. P. A., LOBO, D., LEAO, T. C. C.; BRANCALION, P. H. S.; NAVE, A. G.; GANDOLFI, S.; SANTOS, A. M.; RODRIGUES, R. R.; TABARELLI, M. 2008. Implementando Reflorestamentos com Alta Diversidade na Zona da Mata Nordestina - Guia Prático. [Implementing restoration projects with high biodiversity in the Northeastern Atlantic Forest: a guidebook] Recife: José Luiz Vasconcelos.
<br>
<br>
LEÃO, T.; LOBO, D.; SCOTSON, L. 2017. Economic and biological conditions influence the sustainability of harvest of wild animals and plants in developing countries. Ecological Economics, 140:14-21.
<br>
LOBO, D.; LEÃO, T.; MELO, F.; SANTOS, A.M.M.; TABARELLI, M. 2011. Forest fragmentation drives the Atlantic forest of northeastern Brazil to biotic homogenization. Diversity and Distributions, v. 17, p. 287-296.
<br>
LOBO, D.; TABARELLI, M.; LEAL, I. R. 2011. Relocation of <i>Croton sonderianus</i> (Euphorbiaceae) seeds by <i>Pheidole fallax</i> Mayr (Formicidae): a case of post-dispersal seed protection by ants? Neotropical Entomology, v. 40, p. 440-444
<br>                  
LEÃO, T.; LOBO, D. 2012. Árvores da RPPN Pedra D’Anta: Guida de Identificação. Recife: AMANE.</p>
